Review 2025.1 changelog documentation changes (#17895)
nvaccess/nvda: user_docs/en/changes.md

* Support for math in PDFs has been added. (#9288, @NSoiffer)
  * This works for formulas with associated MathML, such as some files generated by newer versions of TeX/LaTeX.
  * Currently this is only supported in Foxit Reader & Foxit Editor.
* NVDA can now be configured to speak the current line or paragraph when navigating with braille navigation keys. (#17053, @nvdaes)
* NVDA is now able to report caret changes when pressing `alt+upArrow` or `alt+downArrow` gestures, for example in Visual Studio Code. (#17652, @LeonarddeR)
* Added commands to move the review cursor to the first and last character of the selected text, assigned to `NVDA+alt+home` and `NVDA+alt+end`, respectively. (#17299, @nvdaes)
* Added a general setting to prevent the display turning off during say all or reading with braille.
This option is enabled by default, but may result in increased battery depletion. (#17649, @LeonarddeR)

### Changes

* Component updates:
  * Updated LibLouis Braille translator to [3.33.0](https://github.com/liblouis/liblouis/releases/tag/v3.33.0). (#17469, #17768, @LeonarddeR, @codeofdusk)

>     * Added new Coptic, compact Cuneiform, and Portuguese 6 dot Computer Braille tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Added new Coptic, compact Cuneiform, and Portuguese 6 dots Computer Braille tables.
```

Author: Please see comment here: https://github.com/nvaccess/nvda/pull/17895#discussion_r2030304906

  * Updated CLDR to version 46.0. (#17484, @OzancanKaratas)
  * Updated eSpeak NG to 1.52.0. (#17056)
* NVDA interface changes:
  * The NVDA installer no longer plays a sound when launched. (#14068)
  * The Report link destination, Character formatting information, and Speak selection dialogs, now include "Close" and "Copy" buttons for user convenience. (#17018, @XLTechie)
  * The exit dialog now allows you to restart NVDA with add-ons disabled and debug logging enabled simultaneously. (#11538, @CyrilleB79)
  * The ability to opt out of using WASAPI for audio output has been removed. (#16080)
  * The Browse Mode setting "Automatically set system focus to focusable elements" has been removed, the behaviour is now disabled. (#17598)

>   * NVDA will now only warn about add-on incompatibility when updating to a version which has an incompatible add-on API to the currently installed copy. (#17071, #17506)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * NVDA will now only warn about add-on incompatibility when updating to a version which has an incompatible add-on API to the currently running copy. (#17071, #17506)
```

Author: this is misleading, as it's not warning about the running copy, but the previous

```suggestion
  * NVDA will now only warn about add-on incompatibility when updating to a version which has an incompatible add-on API to the currently copy. (#17071, #17506)
```

Author: @SaschaCowley thoughts on this reword? its to cover portable copies

Reviewer 2: I'd change "with" to "to", but otherwise I think it's good.

## 2025.1

> This release introduces NVDA Remote, allowing you to control a remote copy of NVDA from another device running NVDA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This release introduces NVDA Remote, allowing you to control a remote computer from another device running NVDA.
```

Author: >Imo, perhaps it's clearer to reflect that another computer can be controlled, to indicate that not just NVDA, but other components of the system, can be controlled.

I'm worried this may be more misleading, implying you can control a remote computer without NVDA

```suggestion
This release introduces NVDA Remote, allowing you to control a remote computer running NVDA from another device running NVDA.
```

> There any many improvements to speech particularly responsiveness with SAPI 4, SAPI 5 and OneCore voices.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are many improvements to speech particularly responsiveness with SAPI 4, SAPI 5 and OneCore voices.
```

Author: nice catches - thanks!

Rate boost and automatic language switching is now supported in SAPI 5.
SAPI 4 voices now support audio ducking, leading silence trimming, and keeping the audio device awake.

The Add-on Store automatic update system has been improved, allowing you to select channels for automatic updates, and run automatic updates in the background.

It's now easier to manually refresh OCR and toggle automatic refresh, with new commands.

Native selection is now available in Chrome and Edge.

Microsoft Office and LibreOffice support has improved, notably with more shortcuts being announced.

Default input and output braille tables can now be determined based on the NVDA language.

> Native support support has been added for the Dot Pad tactile graphics device from Dot Inc as a multiline braille display.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Native support has been added for the Dot Pad tactile graphics device from Dot Inc as a multiline braille display.
```

There have been other minor fixes for braille displays particularly around connectivity.

LibLouis braille translator, eSpeak-NG and Unicode CLDR have been updated.

> Nw Coptic, compact Cuneiform, and Portuguese Computer Braille tables are available.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
New Coptic, compact Cuneiform, and Portuguese Computer Braille tables are available.
```

      * The default automatic update channel can be set from the Add-on Store panel in NVDA's settings.
    * Automatic updates can now happen in the background.
      * This can be enabled in the Add-on Store panel in NVDA's settings by changing "Automatic updates" to "Update Automatically".
    * Automatic updates can now update incompatible add-ons to another, newer, incompatible version.
      * This can be enabled in the Add-on Store panel in NVDA's settings.
  * Added an action to cancel the install of add-ons. (#15578, @hwf1324)
  * Added an action to retry the installation if the download/installation of an add-on fails. (#17090, @hwf1324)
  * The add-ons lists can be sorted by columns, including publication date, in ascending and descending order. (#15277, #16681, @nvdaes)
* Speech:
  * Automatic language switching is now supported when using Microsoft Speech API version 5 (SAPI5) and Microsoft Speech Platform voices. (#17146, @gexgd0419)
  * Rate boost is now supported when using Microsoft Speech API version 5 (SAPI5) and Microsoft Speech Platform voices, which supports up to 6X speed. (#17606, @gexgd0419)
* Web browsers:

>   * NVDA browse mode's native selection mode (`NVDA+shift+f10`) is now supported in Google Chrome and other applications based on Chromium 134 or newer. (#17838)

Reviewer 3: Maybe many not techy users do not know that Edge is based on Chrome?

```suggestion
  * NVDA browse mode's native selection mode (`NVDA+shift+f10`) is now supported in Google Chrome, Edge and other applications based on Chromium 134 or newer. (#17838)
```

## 2025.1

This release introduces NVDA Remote, allowing you to control a remote computer running NVDA from another device running NVDA.

> There are many improvements to speech particularly responsiveness with SAPI 4, SAPI 5 and OneCore voices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many improvements to speech, particularly responsiveness with SAPI 4, SAPI 5 and OneCore voices.
```

Rate boost and automatic language switching is now supported in SAPI 5.
SAPI 4 voices now support audio ducking, leading silence trimming, and keeping the audio device awake.

The Add-on Store automatic update system has been improved, allowing you to select channels for automatic updates, and run automatic updates in the background.

It's now easier to manually refresh OCR and toggle automatic refresh, with new commands.

Native selection is now available in Chrome and Edge.

Microsoft Office and LibreOffice support has improved, notably with more shortcuts being announced.

Default input and output braille tables can now be determined based on the NVDA language.
Native support has been added for the Dot Pad tactile graphics device from Dot Inc as a multiline braille display.

> There have been other minor fixes for braille displays particularly around connectivity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There have been other minor fixes for braille displays, particularly around connectivity.
```

LibLouis braille translator, eSpeak-NG and Unicode CLDR have been updated.

> New Coptic, compact Cuneiform, and Portuguese Computer Braille tables are available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New Coptic, compact Cuneiform, and 6 dots Portuguese Computer Braille tables are available.
```

Author: We use "6 dot" not dots more consistently

```suggestion
New Coptic, compact Cuneiform, and Portuguese 6 dot Computer Braille tables are available.
```

  * NVDA will now only warn about add-on incompatibility when updating to a version which has an incompatible add-on API to the currently installed copy. (#17071, #17506)
  * The "Contributors" file has been removed from the NVDA menu. (#16922)
  * The NVDA license is now formatted in HTML to improve readability. (#17600)
  * Short versions of the most commonly used command line options have been added: `-d` for `--disable-addons` and `-n` for `--lang`.
  Prefix matching on command line flags, e.g. using `--di` for `--disable-addons` is no longer supported. (#11644, @CyrilleB79)
  * Changes to the COM Registration Fixing Tool: (#12355, @XLTechie)
    * It now starts with a more user friendly explanation of its purpose, instead of a warning. (#12351)
    * The initial window can now be exited with `escape` or `alt+f4`. (#10799)
    * It will now show a message to the user, including the error, in the rare event of a Windows error while attempting COM re-registrations.
* Microsoft Office:
  * In Microsoft Word, when using the "report focus" command, the document layout will be announced if this information is available and reporting object descriptions is enabled. (#15088, @nvdaes)

>   * In Word and Outlook the result of more shortcuts is reported:

Reviewer 3: Move this to "New feature" section for consistency.

>     * Added new Coptic, compact Cuneiform, and Portuguese Computer Braille tables.

Author: ```suggestion
    * Added new Coptic, compact Cuneiform, and Portuguese 6 dot Computer Braille tables.
```

* LibreOffice:
  * When using the Microsoft Pinyin Input Method for Chinese and enabling the Pinyin compatibility option to use the previous version, typing in LibreOffice Writer (and potentially other applications) while an IME popup is showing no longer triggers an error. (#17198, @michaelweghorn)
  * In LibreOffice, the current checkbox state (checked/unchecked) is now also reported in braille, not just speech. (#17218, @michaelweghorn)
* Math:
  * Math reading has been fixed for some web elements.
  Specifically, MathML inside of span and other elements that have the attribute `role="math"`. (#15058)
  * Math equations only represented by an image and alt text with no MathML for rich navigation, are now treated like normal images, rather than math with no content, allowing the user to jump to them with `g` and to be able to arrow through the alt text by character. (#16007)
* IDEs:
  * NVDA will no longer crash when selecting all text in certain source files in Android Studio or IntelliJ Idea. (#17418, @thgcode)
  * In Visual Studio Code, NVDA no longer hijacks the `alt+upArrow` and `alt+downArrow` gestures for sentence navigation. (#17082, @LeonarddeR)

>   * Fix issue with certain section elements not being recognized as editable controls in Visual Studio Code. (#17573, @Cary-rowen)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Certain section elements are now correctly recognized as editable controls in Visual Studio Code. (#17573, @Cary-rowen)
```

    * This way device detection can be constrained further in cases where a VID/PID-combination is shared by multiple devices across multiple drivers, or when a HID device offers multiple endpoints, for example.
    * See the method documentation as well as examples in the albatross and brailliantB drivers for more information.
* Added a new function, `utils.mmdevice.getOutputDevices`, to enumerate audio output devices. (#17678)

> * Added a new extension point `pre_synthSpeak` in `synthDriverHandler`, which will be called before the speech manager calls `speak` of the current synthesizer. (#17648)

Author: ```suggestion
* Added a new extension point `pre_synthSpeak` in `synthDriverHandler`, which will be called before the speech manager calls `speak` of the current synthesizer. (#17648)
* NVDA supports the "text-indent" IAccessible2 object attribute. (#13052, @michaelweghorn)
```
